OK, so the theme of this chapter is
borrowed from this movie The matrix
and the idea is that from this scene,
I mean, if you see the movie.
Uh, in the first few amount of the scenes
at the real moment that I mean Trinity
was about to escape from the matrix.
And, uh, the idea was that the only
way in or out of the matrix is just,
uh, through the phone and it
is possible to do that.
So why we put this slide here?
Because you'll see that dealing with
a file or a device is like dealing.
I mean making a connection
with the device or file.
The number that connects your program with
the device or the file doesn't matter.
Very similar to this movie that
the number that the call actually
happens doesn't matter.
The connection matters the most.
So.
We said that oh, one thing again,
I tried to put this slide from what
chapter of the book we borrowed the topics.
So this is the old topics we are going
to discover and this week and also
the week after the reading week is
chapter three and also we add some
topic from Chapter 4 of this book,
Advanced Programming in the
Unix environment by Stevens.
So this is the reference book, uh?
If I borrow some other
topics from other books,
I will post it in the slides as well.
So we said that we start with gradually
go into the kernel of the operating
system after covering the shell part.
The shell is not part of the kernel,
it's just a add in or.
I mean kind of additional problem.
An operating system delivered by **** I mean.
Next to the kernel.
But now we gradually move toward
the kernel and the store with him.
Kind of simplest part of
the kernel File Manager.
So File Manager as you can see here has
three main different levels of abstraction
from the operating system point of view.
A high level which is the level that all
the other programmers are dealing with.
And this I mean this beneath the high level
there is a low level handling of the devices
and the files by the operating system.
We touched some topics about that, but
this is not our main topic in this course.
Basically our main focus is the high
level abstraction of the files and
device by the operating system and the
last layer of the File Manager is the.
Dealing directly with the device,
we will not cover these this layer
because it needs knowledge of device.
What type of device we're
dealing with and etc.
So at this level, at the device level,
it matters that you are dealing with the
USB or you are dealing with a keyboard.
Or other devices.
The more we go up to the upper
level distinctions becomes a.
I mean, you can simply ignore the distinction
and the distinctions actually disappear.
At high level, it doesn't matter.
You are reading from a keyboard.
Or from a monitor.
Sorry,
you are writing to a monitor or whatever,
or you are reading from
a USB or CD ROM and etc.
At high level all these devices and far
are considered files and doesn't matter.
But the more you go to the deeper and
deeper layers of the file system it matters.
Found the programmer POV at this course.
That's a nice abstraction for us,
because when we write a program,
it's very easy for us to just
mention the file name,
which may be mapped to a device or
an actual file in the storage, etc.
So that's the main purpose of
the File Manager,
but I'll be said most of the developers
of the opening system system programmers.
System level programmers call
it file system so.
In out there you'll see files.
You'll hear file system more
often than the File Manager.
All these thoughts are about
high level of the fire system.
So from this level, any device is a 1D.
Array of bytes or string of bytes.
We already said that even the memory
and processor are arrays of bytes.
Uh,
but The thing is because memory and
processor is very important to run a
program so and the main part of the
kernel that takes control of your
program to make it a process and
give the processor to that process,
is the process manager of the kernel.
Just for these two devices,
we give up their responsibility
and give it to the process manager
and the fire system doesn't care
about the memory and processor,
just these two devices, all other devices.
Is handled if you want to
transmit information,
either receiving or sending information,
it's going to be directed to the file system.
From this SAA high level level
point of view from the fire system
keyboard is just a read only device.
You are receiving information
receiving bytes of characters.
Printer is just a write only demise.
You are sending information
characters to be printed out.
Monitor is still easy right out device right?
Only a device that you can send information.
This information is just numbers that
represent the color color of the pixel.
Touch Screen is a read write device
basically and not only you can
receive the position of the touch,
but also you can render the pixels
so it's a read write device.
A storage device is USB hard
disk drives Nvme desert.
The I mean modern SSD,
solid state drives and a touch of
all these are devices that you can
store information from the high
level perspective of file system.
They are just simply read and write.
Device is very similar to
a touchscreen device.
However, in the physical level,
in the device level there is a huge
difference between these devices.
But we don't care.
For instance, artist drive.
These are just cylinders of
some Electro magnetic
material on surface and etc.
And there is a head that moves and etc.
However, the USB and SD these devices
are just flip flops registers.
You know what are the registers in
the computer architecture one course,
so there are huge difference
between the way these devices are
working to restore the information.
However, in the high level
for us doesn't matter.
We just read or write information.
Historically, because of the
first device that contains the
programs to be run in inside the
computer system was stored in some
devices called the storage device.
A as again string of bytes,
and these boys were the opcodes.
01's etc. Historically, they call it fire.
So basically they say that program files.
That's why. Uh, we use the term file.
So historically,
because of the program was stored in some
devices called file or program files.
But this still from this point of view,
these are just a string of points.
If you have two files, you have to
store it in two different devices.
Again, back in the history.
So then you need two storage
devices to store 2 program files.
The very first story devices
with just punch cards.
Basically, whenever you see a Z,
I mean there are some holes,
not holes and holes etc.
These holes and knotholes
represents the round ones.
And you have to feed in these punch
cards to the device in order to ask
the opera kernel to run it for you.
However, later as the
technology progress are,
we have a storage devices that are large,
meaning that they can store
multiple program files.
As a result, the only for this
device it becomes setup files.
We can informally think of large
street devices as the sub devices.
For instance, if you have a
huge I mean a hard disk drive,
you can think of this as the
small devices informally,
and each device can be called fine.
That's why, for instance,
if you have one millions of
files in your heart destroyed,
you can think of hardly store
as 1,000,000 sub devices.
At at this level of a,
I mean a file system.
So from now on, whenever we save file.
We mean device. Whether it is
a device inside hard describe,
which is basically the normal
files or it is a keyboard,
the actual device or it is
a mouse or it is a monitor.
So from now on whenever we save file
in directly we mean device or whenever
we say device and directly within
file because there is no difference
for us at this level of programming.
So again, keyboard monitors.
These are just either read only
write only or read write the files.
The only small difference for
the storage devices that you can
think of them as a set of files.
You already last elected.
You already gave some more examples,
for instance of scanners.
Which are reading devices digital PEN,
which is a reading devices and there
are all other types of device that you
can put it in one of these categories.
So we end up here,
so I couldn't find a better way
to represent files or devices.
So again, if they are just string.
Why we call them a string?
Because order matters.
The first Boyd before
the next board matters,
so the order matters.
But whether it's a string of keyboard,
string of information for keyboard
or a string of information for
murder or a normal image file
from the file system in at
higher level doesn't matter.
So now that we have this
level of abstraction.
Uh, what we can ask from the kernel
is specifically from the file system
part of the kernel to work with.
Define or I mean the same,
very exactly the same to
work with the devices.
So again, this is the exactly I
mean mnemonic representation of the
file system part of the kernel.
So this is for instance the file
system waiting for your command
in order to deal with devices
equally equally the files.
So basically,
what are the operation you expect if
I system or the kernel does for you
on for a device or exactly the same file?
I listed some uh main operations
that I programmers, once a kernel,
to do that for him or herself. Uh,
so the first one is that create a new file.
Or again, create a new device.
At this level, you can create a device,
but this device is a virtual
device is not a physical device,
so you can create a new one by one again.
File. Or divines.
When you have you created a one,
you can open it.
You can, you can ask the kernel to
open that device or file for you.
To do what to write information to that.
So first you have to create and then
open it and then you write to open one.
Also, you can read from an open one.
You can ask the kernel the file
system to send the information
from that file or device.
You can move forward or backward,
kind of rewind or Fast
forward in an open one.
You can ask the kernel to delete an
existing device or existing file.
You can check whether a device for
a file is existed in your system.
You can ask to hide some files or devices.
You can ask the kernel to prevent
others to access the existing one.
Or they can access it,
but they are not allowed to write one.
So now I want you to put me to give
me some example what operation.
You need the kernel to do for
you as a as a programmer.
Oh, that's a great example.
Yes, just rename the. Fight.
I think I might be so fine.
You can rename a device.
You can rename the
keyboard to another name,
so that's at this level.
It is a, I mean a legal operation.
You can ask Colonel to do for you.
What else?
What else?
Yeah Danielle, that's good.
That's another good example you can
ask operating system the file system
to make a copy out of the your file.
Ah, Victor says zipping a zip.
If you want to put some files into
one set up compressed by this is
basically not a up I mean operation.
I mean supported by most of
the operating system because
this is a task of application.
So you may put it as a part of
the file system of a kernel,
but usually zipping or compressing a
file is not part of the operating system.
Although for instance,
you know that I mean Microsoft Windows,
the I mean from I think it
was the Windows XP.
After that version it gives you
the opportunity to compress
your file or partition.
So this is an option for an operating
system to include it as a part of file
system or leave it as an application
level program and you can install
an application to do that for you.
But that's a good example.
So another thing is, uh?
Override.
Uh, basically overrides.
For this level of abstraction,
meaning that deleting.
And then creating a new one.
So there is no specific operation.
Called out override whenever you do
override your or ask an operating
system to override at this level,
it just delete the existing one and
then create a new one for you, yeah?
Ah, Victor asked the version of
operating system in the school is
Debbie and I'm not sure the only
thing I know is that it's it's
a Linux version, but you can't.
At anytime you can see the version of the.
Operating system at your login time.
Today I'm going to start doing some
programming, so I'll show you how
can you see the version of the Linux.
The distribution of the Linux
in a system and etc.
Michelle says, what do you
use Professor, actually, uh,
one thing actually after this course.
This is an important, I mean a topic
or interesting question by Michelle.
As a programmer for you,
after passing this course and all
the other next courses for you,
you shouldn't care about the opening system.
The only thing you should care is
that whether the underlying operating
system supports the standard post six
operations or not, as long as it is.
Almost standardized by the Post 6.
Doesn't matter what distribution
or what version of the operating
system you're working with.
So the only thing for you matters
is that when you write a program.
How wide your program gonna be
supported by the operating system.
In order to do that,
you only need to know that operating system
supports the process functions or not.
So the others if versus if you want we
want to be an expert in Linux distribution,
then it is up to you.
For instance,
you become a Linux admin in some.
Company, but as a programmer.
Uh, for this course and also I mean for the
next few courses related to operating system,
it doesn't matter.
So for me I've I have my Mac,
so I work with the terminal of the Mac.
I have windows on my workstation,
I'll put my run on the Linux distribution,
Ubuntu and etc so.
Uh, yeah,
I mean you have to be like an architect.
The material doesn't matter for you.
You should know to how.
Powerful immaterial is for you to
do that to you, to do your job.
So we have vector,
so go ahead Victor.
Yes Sir, I was just curious about
the about the zipping thing.
So like I know I tried it with both
UM like so going through like bit
vice and and you know going into the
schools terminal for some reason like I
can use I'll put the command in the chat.
I use this command and this allows me
to zip all my files 'cause I put them
in a folder and so I can zip them all.
All of the files in that folder.
Together and then I can and then
I can use the SPC command from my
windows to just take that zip file.
But I tried zipping.
I tried taking this file separately
and then zipping them through windows
and so I know through Windows.
It seems like you do have to use
like a third party application like
7 zip or something like that to
do the compression or whatever,
but for whatever reason it has this built
in function on the university system.
So is that a kernel function or is it?
That's a,
that's a good question.
We already discussed this about the compiler.
For C, You remember that?
OK,
yeah,
so for instance,
if you are in front of the command
prompt and you put in name so
you have to think about whether
this is a builtin command or
this is a program file added to.
Half of this system variable,
so you have to decide whether
this is a program
file or with a built in command.
The same exact thing is about the zip.
So you have to ask this question whether
it's a program in some part of this system.
That is added by the system variable path.
For instance, it is.
Maybe I'm just for example.
Say for instance it is maybe in the EC pin.
And at this folder, for instance zip.
So in this case zip is a program file.
If there is no program file
available in your system,
so then it is a part of the
built in command of the Shell.
But I'm pretty sure that in most distribution
of the Unix based operating system,
zip is the program file.
So the only thing is that where
is that program file right?
So you can look at this comma
command in most of the distribution
of the Linux locate or find.
You can simply look.
I mean use this command to
find the program file for zip.
So it is not part of the key.
Yeah, is there a like?
I know, you know,
at least for Windows,
they have the program files folder
and then the times 86 like is there.
There must be a similar thing with all of
the available applications for for Unix,
right?
Sorry I didn't get this class,
so like for like if I just wanted to
see you know like say I logged into
school and I wanted to see every
single like available application
like program that I could access
like is there is there should be
a specific folder for that right?
Just like we have in Windows.
Ah. Uh, yes and no.
The thing is that some,
uh,
one thing is that about the
organization of applications in
distributions of unique space, or.
There is no standard for that as a result,
so you may end up with different
program files in different folders.
OK, The thing is that for the windows,
because Windows is only there's one
company behind that and it is closed,
so Windows knows where to put all
the application and restricted the
programmers to put the program
files in some specific folders.
That's why you know that.
But for the Unix based operating
system because.
There is a huge versions of
the operating system,
so sometimes when you install an
application it goes to one folder,
sometimes it goes to another folder.
They try to establish that.
So for instance,
I'm pretty sure that for the
Linux distribution,
whenever you install a program file by.
I forgot the name of the command for
installing an application so they try to
establish that whenever you install the
program it goes to a specific folder,
but it's not that clear.
For instance, CC A door of standard
for the Francis C compiler is always
in the ETC band. And the ****.
You have to for instance use this command
to see where is that program for the
list of all available program files are.
I don't know. I don't know.
You have to Google it.
Probably there will be a command for
the shell that gives you all the program
files that you have access to, yeah?
For me as a programmer.
Whenever I see a file with the plus X,
it means that it's a executable file,
so it's a program file.
OK, I think yeah,
I just tried to hide her more paint
step on my system and it gave me like.
Looks like hundreds of every day, so I
think it just found every single zip file.
So because it says based on the words at ZIP.
Yeah, so it just looks for every instance.
And then you have to find, I mean which one?
The last the last part of that row is the ZIP
and also it has this attribute executable.
In Dash L, it shows that the green fire,
I mean green color.
Yeah right wait sorry,
what's the green color, Sir?
The thing is because when
you Alex Planet in the last,
when you make a file executable,
the bash shell in order to differentiate that
file with other files, it makes it green.
I mean the color of being this way.
Executable file yeah, OK thank you Sir.
Yeah. Thank you for your question
and that's a good question.
That's a good question anyways.
Also, now we want to start asking
the kernel doing system called to do
all these operation on top of the.
Uh, the uh Colonel.
So the first immediate I mean
operation is called create,
so it doesn't have remember that
create it says standard by postfix.
All the operating system if
they are standardized by process
should support this function.
Which is part of this system called.
Uh, it is called file.
Control. Santa abbreviation for that.
This is a system called, UH,
actually it's a library.
It's a collection of functions that
does this system for a system call
to the kernel to work with file.
And, uh, now for this lecture
I'm going to go to details of
the prototype of the function,
but from the next lecture I just give
you the prototype of the function
and then you know what's going on.
But for now I just wanted to see
how you can read a prototype of
a system called and you have to
pay attention to the details.
So what this system called does
is that the first one is that
you have to be careful that you
are using what system called.
So basically the create is in the file
control. A system call or header.
So we already showed the standard
lists of the system calls to a kernel.
So as you can see here,
this is the file control.
So in the book in the section 0.14.
Actually it explains this part that
we are going to expand it right now.
So.
If you write a C program file and you
add this header file and use that function,
you are directly doing a system called.
You are not using library thing.
You are not using shell,
you're directly doing a system called.
So the first argument.
Or parameter to this function is called path.
Uh,
in this is just a name for argument.
We don't care about that,
but the only thing is important is
this data type of the parameter
can't carry store cons character,
meaning that just as a reminder
for those that may forget about
the pointers in C program.
So basically a pointer.
Is a address of memory, so it's a.
Integer value.
But it has a address from memory.
For instance it has 001010
something like that.
Usually they show it by hexadecimal,
so it is zero FA C for instance one.
So this is an address, but this address.
Refers or points to a location of memory.
And that location is of type character.
So basically the information in
this location there are characters.
See for instance PE and etc.
You may say that in a memory we
cannot have the character through.
Basically, when we said character means
that the ASCII code for that character
versus C may have the ASCII code 60,
so the binary value for 60
maybe 110 something one.
So these are the binary values of
the ASCII code for that character.
Anyways, this means that you need
a name for that device or for that
file to be created by the kernel.
So usually in this C program will simply
say that you can use it like this.
Can a making name,
for instance file name.
And with the length of 20 characters
and then you can put the name
in the inside the quotation.
For instance test. Dot T XT.
So basically you create a file.
Your next question would be that can I
put in name of a keyboard or monitor
to create a keyboard or monitor and
what does it mean when you create
a keyboard it means that you are.
Making a connection to that device you
are not creating physical keyboard.
You are making a connection
to that device or a new file.
So that's an important part of
a great function.
Putting a name also another way
is that you can put Cara store
for instance and so in C program
you know that these are basically
in practice acts the same.
They are not similar.
The north side, they are not the same,
but they are similar in practice.
So you can,
again you can say put S dot TXT.
And what the cost mean is that the
constant is the pointer is constant.
So the place that it shows the information.
This information is constant,
meaning that now, for instance,
if you make it constant.
Then you are not allowed
to change the value of FM.
If you do that, it raises an error.
But high level it just in name for that
device or file that you want to create.
These are just details of this C program.
So the next, uh, parameter or argument
to the function is called mode. So,
and this is a constant that are a constant.
Sorry it's a data type for mode.
I'll explain what is this,
but at the high level it just provides what
type of permission you need for that file.
For instance, you may create a
file which is only read only.
For you, sorry for others.
So later we'll see what is the permission
structure for devices and files in
a kernel of an operating system.
But for now,
you can see that you can create a
file that you can do read right?
So you can do this. But others.
You can ask channel.
Others only can read.
How will explain that?
I mean next lecture, so this is related to
the permission of to the device or file.
Or you can say I want to create a file
that is read, write and executable.
So this is another attribute to file,
but for others only read and write,
they are not able to execute that file.
For us, for now, it's just a operation.
You can simply create a file by read,
write or credit.
Device we drive.
Another interesting question
would be what if you create a
device which is read only but
you give access read write.
So that's a good question.
So whether the kernel is able to
do that for you or the kernel
actually cannot do that for you
and raise an error for you.
We'll explain this parameter later,
but one thing is that what is this?
Because usually in C program the data type,
valid data types are integer character,
for instance float. Or real?
These are the legal data types.
What is this? I'll explain if you slides,
but for now it's just the mode of the file.
But the important part of the creed
is the connection. So that's why
we use this slide from the matrix.
So the return type of this function
is an integer, just in number.
But it has it.
It has an important concept behind it
or semantically called file descriptor.
File descriptor, uh, I mean,
in terms of the value,
it isn't not negative number.
If the Colonel was able to
create a defile for you.
Otherwise, it's a negative minus one.
It's not a negative number, it is exactly
minus one according to the process.
So if you receive a -- 5,
it is not an error.
It is not a file descriptor.
What is this?
It is unspecified by the process.
So, uh, we know that as long as
it is a positive or also zero non
negative meaning that it includes 0.
It is the action is OK,
but it's done successfully by the kernel.
Otherwise it's minus one,
so this is one hint, do not.
If you want to check whether
this action was successful,
do not simply check the output,
whether it's negative or no.
This is not a good way to
check whether the action is OK.
You have to explicitly.
Uh, uh,
compared with the minus one.
Because operating system may take use of
the negative numbers for other purposes.
So what is this? Uh, when you your
program become a process and at the
time that you write the OP code we will
reach the opcode of the create function.
Your process give the path the
argument path and the mode for us,
we can simply ignore it for now.
To the uh, using the F. Control.
A header does this system
called to the kernel.
The fire system returns and non
negative number called file descriptor.
The value of this number doesn't matter.
The connection matters.
And as long as you have that file
descriptor. You are connected
to that device or that file.
And now you are able to write or read or
whatever you want to do to that file.
That's an important thing.
So what is file descriptor exactly?
So if you want to understand what
file descriptor you have to think of
something like dynamic phone number.
So imagine I want to talk to,
for instance, a Mesa.
So I don't know then a phone number of
Mesa and I don't need to know that the
only thing I need is that I have to ask,
for instance, the Dean of the department.
To give me a connection to Mesa.
And then the when the Dean of the
department give me the connection
through a random number,
I'm connected to maysam,
ready to talk to Mesa.
As long as I have that
number but that number,
the value of that number doesn't matter.
When I disconnect the connection,
that number is not valid anymore and
can be reused by for other purposes.
Or kind of dynamic post alcohol for instance.
If I want to send Mason a package,
it doesn't matter though.
What is the postal code of?
I mean,
a place that is living.
I don't need to know that the only
thing I need is that at the time
that I want to send the package,
I asked somebody to give me the
current postal code of the Mason and
then I used Apple soccer to send
my packet when my package is done,
the sending of my package is done.
I don't need that postal code anymore and
also that postal code is not valid anymore.
So then,
uh,
at the next time that I want to send
another package I have to do the same.
I have to ask the correct postal code of
medicine in order to send a new package.
It may be sound weird for you
to think of it as dynamic postal
code as dynamic phone number,
but probably you hear the bad dynamic IP.
For instance,
you have your laptop and you go to the
campus at any time that you go to the
campus unique IP gonna be assigned to you.
And it doesn't matter
what's the value of dial P.
It matters that as long as you have that IP
you have the connection to the Internet.
When you leave the campus,
then that IP is not valid for
you and can be reused for another
laptop or another student.
At anytime you enter the campus in
new random IP going to be assigned
to you so you don't have to record
that IP because the next time you are
out of the campus and you come back again,
that IP is not valid anymore.
Why this character is the same as dynamic IP?
Whenever you want to interact with
the file or a creative new one,
the kernel gives you a random number.
As long as you have that number,
you can deal with that file or
device whenever you close your
program where you close that file,
then that number doesn't have any virtue.
You have to simply get rid of that.
That's an important thing so. As a result,
file descriptor is not an identifier.
Scene number, student ID, or whatever.
These are called identifier
because they are attached to you.
Even after your death,
so the government are not allowed
to reuse your SIM number or reuse.
Your friends are.
The identifier of you for another person.
Serial of the devices are the same.
Serial number is attached to that device.
Even that device is not working.
Or I mean after the death of that device.
That's the big difference between the
file descriptor and file identifier.
The Carol assigned fire descriptor.
It doesn't have to be identified.
So we have a some question in the
chat, but the path is not dynamic.
Uh, only the file descriptor, right?
Yes, yes, uh, one thing is that
even the path can be dynamic,
but The thing is yes for now.
Uh, the path for the device or
file should be fixed for that
file for that name is the kind of
returns a file descriptor for you,
so the file descriptor is
at any time is different.
Yeah.
So what is the value of file descriptor?
As we said it's an integer non negative so
it is not from the closed range of zero,
up until is maximum value minus one because
C program is a zero based indexing system.
So zero through open Max minus one in total
I mean including the zero becomes open Max.
Is the total range of the file descriptor.
So it may, while important because.
The kernel these are the available numbers
inside the kernel that are going to
give to any open or new file or device.
Historically it was.
Fixed by this constant openmax in
this header file. Unix standard.
So this is called. Unix.
The standard and all the standard or
distribution based on the Unix have this.
Header file in this header file.
Their range is defined.
Traditionally it was 20 and then it becomes.
63 and modern operating system basically
say that because it's an integer value,
as long as. We can store an integer value.
It's the capacity of the kernel
to assign the file descriptor.
So if in the system we have 16 bit integer,
what would be the range?
Anybody?
Anybody can answer that.
If in a system we have 16 bit integer.
What would be the last range?
The whole range of the file descriptor.
Correct, so 2 to the power of 16
-- 1 because these are different
values you can assign to 16 bit.
So currently we have 64 bit integers,
it's which we call it long integer.
So it comes it it becomes 2 to
the power 64 -- 1. So as a result,
usually the modern operating system,
they say that there is no limit to
the file descriptor for the kernel.
It means that.
In a program, for instance,
you have a program main dot C.
In this program, for instance, you have a.
Include. F CNTL dot age.
And then you want to create not
only one but also a lot of files.
So in one loop for I equal to 1 up until
some number and you want to create files.
Each one has the different names,
for instance a. Attached by,
for instance are 81828384 and etc.
So how many files you can create
within one single program?
It depends on this range so.
Ideally,
modern operating system allows you to create.
Infinite amount of files in your program or
infinite amount of device in your program.
This is ideal.
No limit,
but you have to think of file
descriptor as an integer so at any
time it cannot be more than the range
of an integer value in a system.
So.
In the post standard, there may be no limit.
But in the current operating system,
you have to see what system that
operating in working and what is the
longest integer supported by that system.
And that's the limit of the number of.
Files that you can create in a program
and ask the file descriptor the kernel
to give you the file descriptor.
So another question is this.
Is it possible to have different
file descriptor only to one file?
For instance, you can create a file.
Ally, for instance,
something like that and the
operating system returns the value,
for instance 100 for you
as a file descriptor.
And then later you work
with that file and etc.
Is it possible to access to this same
file with another file descriptor,
for instance 0.5?
The answer is yes and later
we'll see what is the purpose of
multiple file descriptors to a
single device or a single file.
So I just here I just want to show
that the Unix standard header file is
part of the kernel, and as you can see,
the purpose is to define the symbolic
constants such as this maximum value.
Among all the valid file descriptor numbers,
there are three of them specifically
reserved for free purposes.
The standard in file number,
standard out phone number,
and a standard error file number.
The purpose is important, not the value,
so the purpose of this number
or this specific constant is.
Two out to receive information,
so it's a reading. Only.
File descriptor so it's not a device,
it's a file descriptor,
so reading only file descriptor.
This one is the writing.
Only file descriptor.
And this one is again writing.
Only descriptor file descriptor,
but the purpose is for writing errors.
If some errors or exceptions or
issues raised by your program
you prefer to write out these.
Errors into this file descriptor.
So these are not files.
These are not devices,
these are just file descriptors.
In any operating system,
they can be assigned to any
valid coil descriptor numbers,
but traditional traditionally in
the Unix standard header file,
standard input is assigned
to file descriptor #0.
The standard writing out meaning
that just writing the informative
information is attached to one
and error is attached to two.
So what it means is that by a standard,
whenever you are dealing with a device
or file that is returned by the
kernel by the number zero you have,
you expect to receive information.
If you receive the file
descriptor one funded kernel,
you're expecting to write
informative information to that
file or device that you create.
And two means that you are expecting to
write error information to that device or
file that you created by asking the kernel.
But again, you can simply change it to 5.
7 and 10.
You can have your own operating system
and you can change these constants.
That's why we refer to them as these
constants instead of just the actual number.
And at any time, as a programmer,
you can ask the kernel to attach
it to any other file or device.
So you can attack.
You can create a keyboard and ask
the kernel to assign zero to that,
meaning that you are receiving
information from the keyboard
as a standard input device.
You can attach it to mass or a file.
For the one, you can attach it to
monitor because it's a write only
device or printer or another file,
and also for the error also too.
Also you can redirect this one to this.
You can say that I want to map.
This file descriptor 2 the same monitor
that is going to output the information.
Then in one single device you have
the information and the error.
This is one example of using
two different file descriptor
for a single file or device.
So on the last part of the
create function is that if you
ask the create function to.
Create a read only a.
Sorry it is able to create a
file with write only capability.
So if you ask the create.
I put a name of keyboard.
It raises an error because this
function is a limit of this function.
Only create fire or devices
that has the right ability.
So if it's not possible to do that,
it raises this returns file
descriptor minus one, meaning that
it cannot create that file for you,
because maybe that device is
just the read only device.
Or some error happened?
At the time of creation
there new file or device.
So after you create the device you want
to write information to that device
because create can only create A does.
New file or new device for writing
information. So the next function
is using the right function.
This function is not in.
File control header.
It is in another one Unix standard header.
So again, I'm going to go through
the parameters and the return type.
Again, it's a system call.
As you can see here,
it's in the same header file
that has the symbolic constants.
And also again,
it's a system called.
To write whatever you want to a
file and that file already up.
Become accessible to your program
through the file descriptor.
So the first important argument or
parameter is the file descriptor that
you want to write information to.
The second part is.
From what type of what information you
want to write to that device or file?
That information comes from
something called buffer buffer
is intermediate space that has
your information and you want to
transfer it to that device or file.
So the only thing is that you have
to be careful that this buffer,
for now it is located in memory.
So usually it's an array, your program,
or whatever inside the memory.
So. By meaning that the
buffer should be in memory,
is that if you want to transfer the
information to a device or a file.
It should be first in the memory.
And then it should be
transferred to a device.
Either the monitor or the hard
disk drive through the processor.
So the processor does the transfer of the
information by the system called right?
So you would say that if I want to
transfer a huge amount of information,
for instance.
A movie.
I have to put all the pixel or
frames of a movie inside the memory
and then write the each frame
or pixel of the frame through
the processor to for instance
hard disk drive or to monitor.
This must be a kind of the main task.
Processor was the execution of
some command or instruction.
Now it just does the
transfer of the information.
Mother a computer system.
It is a hardware. Uh,
I mean technology supported by the kernel.
They allows direct connection
of memory to the device.
It's called memory mapped IO.
As a result,
a kernel may transfer whatever you
have in buffer without involving the
processor and directly to the device.
You can read about this in the
computer architecture 2 cores.
How the processor allows.
A direct connection between
the devices and the memory.
Even the files the files in the
hard disk drive can be connected
directly to the memory and then
they transfer can be happened
without the processing involvement.
Which is much more faster.
For instance, in the video card,
whenever you are rendering in the mirror.
Is happening without the processing world
and that's why it's much more faster.
But anyways, for this course we assume that
the buffer is inside the memory and the
transfer happens through the processor.
By the I mean by by this
system called the kernel.
And an important thing is that the
void point void point means that.
You have to give this function
it address an integer F and C1.
To a memory location.
But for this function it doesn't
matter that that memory location.
What is the data type,
whether it's a character or it's an integer,
whether it's a real numbers and etc.
It doesn't matter, it just transfer
whatever it is in this location.
How much?
This amount of bytes.
So the elements of transfer is byte.
So you ask the this system called to transfer
the information from the buffer bytes bytes.
So if you are transferring integer
in your system,
the kernel knows that the integer is,
for instance 4 bytes.
So as a result it transferred
4 bytes for you from this.
But the thing the the main issue is that
as a programmer when you call this function,
you have to explicitly tell the kernel
how much bite you want to transfer.
So that's the kind of
pain for the programmers.
This is the responsibility
of the programmers,
the kernel,
the operating system cannot distinguish
how much information you want to transfer
because it considers avoid meaning
that the data is not known to the kernel.
As a result,
if you are transferring just one integer,
you will have to be careful
that your integer is 1 byte,
2 byte, or 4 bytes.
Otherwise the transfer gonna be incomplete.
And the return is that.
This number, which is basically it,
says that you ask the kernel to
write this from this buffer.
With this amount of bytes.
The kernel tries to do that for you.
If it is successful, this number should
be exactly the same as this number.
Otherwise, if it is not equal,
it doesn't raise an error.
You have to check it.
You have to explicitly check
that whether the asset size.
Is equal to as the.
Number of fights or not?
If it's not equal,
you have to print out error that the
transfer of information were incomplete.
When is raised, returns the minus one when.
The kernel cannot do even
one single bytes of transfer.
So. Found it Colonel POV.
If one single bite of a bite
or any other issue raises,
it returns minus one.
However,
if it may transfer some amount
of information,
it returns the amount of pipe
that could be successfully
transferred to the device or file.
And this is your task as a
programmer to check the return
value and the amount that you
ask the kernel to transfer.
So now I was just want to explain
what are these SSS, size, underline,
tea or size underline T or also
we already saw mode underline T?
In C, program did only
available data types are these,
for instance, integer float.
Uh, what else? Real long integer?
Unsigned integer and etc.
So as you can see here,
these are valid data types in C program.
However, sometimes you want to use one of
these data types for the specific semantic.
For instance, in your program,
you may say that I want to define
integer phone number. In my program.
So whenever at the yeah I mean in your
statements you can use the phone variable
to assign a number, for instance.
Oh, I don't know 416 something
and then you add or etc.
But The thing is that whenever
you look at the phone,
the only way that you know
this is a phone is food in May.
If you want to create another
variable which acts like your phone,
you have to again write it phone,
but because that there even is already used,
you have to put phone one phone
two and attach it.
Typedef or meaning that data type
definition is a facility in C program
that you can redefine a data time.
It's not a new data type, it's just in
new name for the same dynamic time.
So basically, you can say that.
Type. Death. Uh, for instance integer
and you put in name for that phone.
This is not a new data type.
Basically it just adds
a new alias for integer.
Then you can simply say that phone.
Ali is equal to 416 something phone,
for instance Hossein something.
Now the phone is actually behind the
scene is an integer. But here you
add a semantic on that data type.
So these are the cement added
semantic to the data type in post.
Six size team.
Is that unsigned?
Integer.
Sorry, unsigned integer.
S size team is that signed integer?
So if you want to see all these aliases,
you have to go to this header file and
this link gives you all the definition
and you can see that exactly the line
that defines the sign size or the size.
Why this is this size and
this is as size or sign size?
The size of bytes cannot be negative.
You cannot ask the cannon to transfer
minus five bytes because it's a size,
so size would be 0123, etc.
So it's an unsigned integer.
However, because of the return
type can be minus one in terms
of exception or error.
That's why they need to make
it signed integer.
So if you go to that header file,
you'll see typedef.
Unsigned line is assigned.
It adds an alias to that signed integer.
Long Integer signed line become this alias.
And then when you write your
information, you can close it.
When you close the connection.
Basically, you say that I don't
need this file descriptor and
the kernel returns back to file
descriptor camp and can reuse
it for other file descriptors.
So it also made the successful
is zero to return type.
If it cannot close the file properly
for you, entertains minus one.
So one thing is that.
When you close the, you have to pass
the file descriptor to the kernel.
That basically say that I don't need
this connection anymore and please
can close the connection for me.
Uh, one thing happens is that.
Usually when the program ends,
the kernel automatically closes all the
file descriptors assigned to your program,
because you don't need that anymore
because your program is closed.
As a result, some programmers do not close
the file descriptor at hand explicitly,
so basically they create they write by.
They never use the close function.
This is not recommended.
It basically means that.
You use the dishes,
you leave the dishes in the sink and you
go out and you don't wash your dishes.
This is very similar to this
act as a programmer,
when you create a file or you
open a file and you work your,
your work is done with that file.
You have to explicitly close
that file descriptor.
Do not leave it to the kernel
to close it for you.
At the end of your program.
Although the kernel does that for you,
although your mom or your
paw may do that for you,
but it's not convenient.
So just for few minutes I just wanted
to show you how can we do this step on
top of each other in one single program.
You will practice this in
the next lab assignment.
How to open a file writer finite set.
You already made a May have done this
before in the C Programming course,
but here the difference is that you
are dealing directly to the kernel.
You are not using library routines.
You are directly doing system call.
So you can create this C program.
I call it file system called C.
Buy DVI application again.
One thing VR you can think of VI as
a program or as a builtin command.
We know that VI is a program
file is not a built in command.
It's an application installed in
a computer system of this school.
So this is the program.
Very simple program to create a new file
and write it stream of simple characters.
So I'm going to go to
the details of each part.
So the first is that.
Using the file control header file.
You have to you want to create a new file.
So basically you create a variable
file descriptor as an integer.
Then you create a file name.
For instance,
I'm saying that in the Koran folder
and this is the file I want to create.
Again, keep in mind that is it
possible to add a device name,
Princess keyboard,
or monitor or mouse or printer and etc.
At this level we said it is possible,
so keep that in mind.
But The thing is that about the mode,
uh, this is.
Again, this is a typedef in the uh.
In the Unix standard.
So basically he saw each.
Aria is.
So. This one basically these are
just constants, for instance 01.
This is one for instance, and it said that
you can make it all of the out of that.
This is not important for us for now,
just simply copy paste this line.
So just for permission setting of
the file that you want to create.
But for you for information basically
says that the read for the group.
Right for the current user,
read for the current user.
And, uh. Uh, I don't know.
I'm not sure what is this.
This is authentic it now I don't know this.
But yeah, this basically gives the
read write access to the current
file and read access to the group.
The members of this group.
And then you basically called the function,
doing a system called create a new file.
This is the name of fall
with this mode and the.
Cannot returns a file descriptor
for you in this variable.
So you can simply print
out what is the number.
So basically you can see whether
this number is minus 1012 other.
And but this is again your responsibility.
The kernel doesn't suddenly close
your program or suddenly reason error.
You have to as a program half
as a programmer. You have to
explicitly compared with minus one.
Again, you should not compare it with zero.
Maybe there is a negative number
used by the operating system so
explicitly by the process it should
be minus one in case of error.
And then you can simply print out error and
whatever you want to do in case of there.
After running this line,
define is created at the current folder.
But you create a file to write
some information to that.
So you create a buffer,
for instance here to any characters.
So.
You can define these arguments to be passed.
To the white function.
And this is the return value.
So this is the input argument
and this is the variable for
output return of the kernel.
But the important thing is,
are these two lines.
You may not use them,
but these are very convenient way
to do that because whenever you want
to write a string of characters,
you can use string copy which is in
the string guard Edge header file.
This is not a system called.
This is a library.
Routine,
so this is for convenience
for the programmers.
Basically it does that it copy character
by character to this buffer for you.
You may say that what if I just put a
in front of this line equal to hello,
something?
Try that and see if it is possible or not.
That's why we use this.
And so as again at home,
try this whether we can remove
this line and Simply put
this line in front of that.
What's the advantage of
using this string copy?
And then this function is tingleff
basically tries to automatically
calculate the length of the characters.
Why this is convenient?
You may say that I can count
the number of characters,
for instance
123456789, ten one is space here 11/1.
Next line 12 we can express account that,
but as a program it's hard for you.
You can simply pass your character and then
it returns the number of bytes for you.
Another thing is that what if
you use Unicode characters.
For instance, you use Chinese character
or Persian character or Arabic characters.
I know I'm from Iran,
so for instance if I use for
instance my name in my own language.
These are Unicode characters.
Unicode characters is not just one bite,
it maybe two bites or more than that.
So this function handles this
type of calculation for you.
Now that you know what is the
information you want to write and
what is the length of information.
Then you can pass it to the right function.
So basically,
you can say that right to this
file descriptor this information
from memory and this is the amount.
And the kernel tries to do that
for you and returns the amount
written to the file or the device.
This is your responsibility to check
whether the right written part of the
information is equal to the amount
that the request from the kernel.
If they are not equal,
you have to raise an error.
And then at the end of the day,
you have to close that file for you.
So again you have to check the return
whether the error happened or not.
So if you run this program,
you have to compile it by the C compiler,
and if you run the executable file for that,
this is the IT means that all the lines
are successfully done and this is the
number for the file descriptor free.
So you see, it doesn't assign 012.
It is starting from free and
etc because it deserves that.
These are the standard.
A file descriptor for specific purposes.
Later, we'll see that how can
we reuse these file descriptors?
And if you open the created file,
you see that these are the
characters written to define.
So so today we just did some very
primitive or elementary steps by
doing system called to create a file,
and I believe this is the first time
that you do actually system called
the kernel of its operating system.
Although it seems very trivial,
so just create a new file writing
some characters and close it,
but think of it as direct connection
to the kernel and this is an
amazing experience for you I think.
Next lecture we explain more
details about reading information.
Now we write the information.
How can we read the information?
Is it possible to create a file
with reading ability or etc?
Next lecture we're going to explain that.
So thank you so much for coming today.
And, uh,
I'm ready for your questions if you have any,
otherwise have a great day and.
Take care.
Yes, yes we gonna include some
question about this week's
lecture in the midterm exam, yes.
I will post some examples in
the blackboard and I will make
an announcement about example
about the format of the midterm.
Don't worry Leila.
I mean keep an eye on your email.
I make an announcement and there
would be some mock example.
Then you can understand what is the format.
You too my son. Thank you.
I used your name as an example in
my lecture, so thank you. You too,
Justin take care and have a great day.
Yes, Joshua enable your mic and.
Sir, this is the exam.
Sorry, what day is the is the midterm exam.
Monday, Monday after the reading
week with this coming Monday.
I mean, the coming Monday.
Is there really quickly? OK, OK.
Monday after the reading.
Thank you Sir. You're welcome.
Have a nice day, you too take care.
OK, I'll be in the office,
so in case you have still some question
about anything related to the leg,
I mean lecture or course we can
ask your question in the office.
And goodbye. Just wanted to close the.
Class.